# Omnism



### Agnostotheism

As described in the section on Christian Athiesm, I suscribe to an intesection of agnostosism and theism. More generally than Christian Atheism or Christian Agnosticism, Agnostotheism describes the belief that a god or higher power does or could exist, but that the proposition that one necessarily does is unknown or outright unknowable to us. That is to say, no current religion or definition of God has been convincing enough to say one exists, but that still doesn't mean we must forgo the possibility entirely. On the spectrum of Agnosticism, I tend towards theism in that I choose to believe a higher power exists. This belief is consistent with our scientific understanding of the univers: a god could have willed the big bang, a god could have set the parameters and physical laws of the universe, and god could have even intervened with life on earth. Though the latter is questionable to me -- I subscribe more to deism, the belief that god is indifferent or incapable of divine intervention.

### Omnism

Omnism can coexist with agnototheism as it is just the belief that there is truth to be found in multiple or even all the religions of the world. It can mean that one believes that one, several, or all religions are describing the same higher power with different interpretations or perceptions. This again means I find it hard to dogmatically subscribe to a single religion without convincing evidence for it's truth, but that there may be elements of a given religion that are describing the true higher power. For example, the christian hebrew god may be an interpretation of the true god, and some may even believe that jesus may have possessed some supernatural powers or relation to that god, but there is no way of definitively knowing that to be true with the current evidence. I don't dismiss any religion entirely (although many aspects of christianity, for example, I believe are confirmed to be infeasible), though I don't think one is the only truth as of my current understanding. The difference between this and one who practices religion is the role of faith. I choose to place my faith in, what seems to me at least, a more probable claim that a higher power likely exists. Christians and other religions people, place more faith in their worldview to say one religion is true and all others are false. For me, there is an extent at which too much reliance on faith is uncomfortable, and this is why I fill this gap with acceptance of unknowing.
